README.md, before:

# WarmLight
WarmLight is a Telegram bot for creating and using databases of quotes.

## Usage

```text
WarmLight Bot
This bot is created to help you saving your quotes. You can add a quote simply by sending a message in this format:
We should forget about small efficiencies, say about 97% of the time: premature optimization is the root of all evil.
sources: Donald Ervin Knuth
#programming #optimization 
There are several important commands in this bot:
/getsources you can search your sources, it will return results and you can view their info and also edit them. For example:
/getsources Animal Farm
will search for a source with name of "Animal Farm". Also, you can use source type specifier to search more specifically for source. For example:
/getsources Animal Farm @book
Will only search for books with name "Animal Farm".
/setactivesource will activate a source for certain amount of time. During that time period, every quote you send will automatically be added to that source. For example:
/setactivesource Animal Farm, 20
Will set source "Animal Farm" as active source for "20 minutes". The time period is optional, for example:
/setactivesource Animal Farm
This command will set source "Animal Farm" as active source for default timeout (60 minutes)
/getoutputs will show you your outputs. Outputs are Telegram channels when you send a new quote, your quotes will be forwarded to there. You can activate and deactivate your outputs with this command.
/getlibtoken and /setlibtoken are used to share a quote library between multiple accounts. The owner of the library will use command /getlibtoken to get his library token. The second account will use command /setlibtoken to set library token received by the owner.
```

## Installation
- [What you need](#what-you-need)
- [Creating a bot in Telegram](#creating-a-bot-in-telegram)
- [Generating SSL certificate files](#generating-ssl-certificate-files)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Using with docker and docker-compose (Recommended)](#using-with-docker-and-docker-compose-recommended)
- [Using without docker](#using-without-docker)
- [Running Migrations](#running-migrations)

### What you need
To be able to use this bot, you need:
- a VPS to run your bot
- a domain name (technically it is not necessary, so in future versions it may not be needed)

### Creating a bot in Telegram
First you need to create a bot using [Bot Father](t.me/botfather). You need to get your bot token and make save it somewhere safe. Make sure also to activate inline bot functionality for bot in Bot Father. 

### Generating SSL certificate files
You need to generate SSL certificate and private key file and pass them to the bot configuration. For that purpose you can use [CertBot](https://certbot.eff.org/) or [acme.sh](acme.sh)

### Configuration
You need to copy `warmlight.sample.toml` (or rename it) to `warmlight.toml` and change it's content as it suites you. This file is written in [Toml](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml) language. 

Also make sure to set `isDev` to `false` if you are running in production.

### Using with docker and docker-compose (Recommended)
You need to [install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and docker-compose. You can use this `docker-compose.yml` file and modify it to your need:
```yaml
version: "3.9"
services:
  warmlight:
    build: ./warmlight # or wherever you have cloned warmlight
    restart: always
    ports:
      - 443:443 # make sure to change the container port if you've changed it in 'warmlight.toml'
    links:
      - db:db
    volumes:
      - ./certs:/app/certs # directory of certificates
      - ./log/warmlight:/app/log # directory you want to put logs in
      - ./config/warmlight/config:/app/config
    enviroment:
      -CONFIG_PATH=/app/config/warmlight.toml # path of config file
  db:
    image: postgres:alpine
    restart: always
    ports:
      -  "127.0.0.1:5432:5432"
    container_name: postgres-db
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=1234 # database password, CHANGE IT and make sure it matches password in 'warmlight.toml'
```

Then you can run command to start postgresql.
```bash 
docker compose up -d db
``` 
Now you need to directly connect to database using 
```bash 
docker exec -it postgres-db psql -U postgres
```
and create a database. (you can use `Ctrl-D` to exit postgres prompt)
```sql
CREATE DATABASE warmlight; -- change 'warmlight' to whatever you want the database name to be
```
Afterwards, you need [run migrations](#running-migrations) and finally run the application using
```bash
docker compose up -d warmlight
```

### Using without docker
This part of documentation is still not written.

### Running migrations
Migrations are handled using [migrate](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate/). For simplicity, I've created a bash script. After creating a database, you can run migrations using this command:
```bash
chmod +x ./migrate.sh # make migrate.sh executable
DB_URL=postgresql://postgres:password@localhost:5432/warmlight?sslmode=disable ./migrate.sh
```

Commit message:

added commands to bot father in README

README.md, after:

# WarmLight
WarmLight is a Telegram bot for creating and using databases of quotes.

## Usage

```text
WarmLight Bot
This bot is created to help you saving your quotes. You can add a quote simply by sending a message in this format:
We should forget about small efficiencies, say about 97% of the time: premature optimization is the root of all evil.
sources: Donald Ervin Knuth
#programming #optimization 
There are several important commands in this bot:
/getsources you can search your sources, it will return results and you can view their info and also edit them. For example:
/getsources Animal Farm
will search for a source with name of "Animal Farm". Also, you can use source type specifier to search more specifically for source. For example:
/getsources Animal Farm @book
Will only search for books with name "Animal Farm".
/setactivesource will activate a source for certain amount of time. During that time period, every quote you send will automatically be added to that source. For example:
/setactivesource Animal Farm, 20
Will set source "Animal Farm" as active source for "20 minutes". The time period is optional, for example:
/setactivesource Animal Farm
This command will set source "Animal Farm" as active source for default timeout (60 minutes)
/getoutputs will show you your outputs. Outputs are Telegram channels when you send a new quote, your quotes will be forwarded to there. You can activate and deactivate your outputs with this command.
/getlibtoken and /setlibtoken are used to share a quote library between multiple accounts. The owner of the library will use command /getlibtoken to get his library token. The second account will use command /setlibtoken to set library token received by the owner.
```

## Installation
- [What you need](#what-you-need)
- [Creating a bot in Telegram](#creating-a-bot-in-telegram)
- [Generating SSL certificate files](#generating-ssl-certificate-files)
- [Configuration](#configuration)
- [Using with docker and docker-compose (Recommended)](#using-with-docker-and-docker-compose-recommended)
- [Using without docker](#using-without-docker)
- [Running Migrations](#running-migrations)

### What you need
To be able to use this bot, you need:
- a VPS to run your bot
- a domain name (technically it is not necessary, so in future versions it may not be needed)

### Creating a bot in Telegram
First you need to create a bot using [Bot Father](t.me/botfather). You need to get your bot token and make save it somewhere safe. Make sure also to activate inline bot functionality for bot in Bot Father.

You can use this text for setting bot commands:
```text
getsources - view and edit sources
setactivesource - set an active source
deactivatesource - deactivate current active source
getoutputs - view and edit outputs
getlibtoken - get current library token
setlibtoken - change library to a library with token
help - bot help
```

### Generating SSL certificate files
You need to generate SSL certificate and private key file and pass them to the bot configuration. For that purpose you can use [CertBot](https://certbot.eff.org/) or [acme.sh](acme.sh)

### Configuration
You need to copy `warmlight.sample.toml` (or rename it) to `warmlight.toml` and change it's content as it suites you. This file is written in [Toml](https://github.com/toml-lang/toml) language. 

Also make sure to set `isDev` to `false` if you are running in production.

### Using with docker and docker-compose (Recommended)
You need to [install Docker](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/) and docker-compose. You can use this `docker-compose.yml` file and modify it to your need:
```yaml
version: "3.9"
services:
  warmlight:
    build: ./warmlight # or wherever you have cloned warmlight
    restart: always
    ports:
      - 443:443 # make sure to change the container port if you've changed it in 'warmlight.toml'
    links:
      - db:db
    volumes:
      - ./certs:/app/certs # directory of certificates
      - ./log/warmlight:/app/log # directory you want to put logs in
      - ./config/warmlight/config:/app/config
    enviroment:
      -CONFIG_PATH=/app/config/warmlight.toml # path of config file
  db:
    image: postgres:alpine
    restart: always
    ports:
      -  "127.0.0.1:5432:5432"
    container_name: postgres-db
    environment:
      - POSTGRES_PASSWORD=1234 # database password, CHANGE IT and make sure it matches password in 'warmlight.toml'
```

Then you can run command to start postgresql.
```bash 
docker compose up -d db
``` 
Now you need to directly connect to database using 
```bash 
docker exec -it postgres-db psql -U postgres
```
and create a database. (you can use `Ctrl-D` to exit postgres prompt)
```sql
CREATE DATABASE warmlight; -- change 'warmlight' to whatever you want the database name to be
```
Afterwards, you need [run migrations](#running-migrations) and finally run the application using
```bash
docker compose up -d warmlight
```

### Using without docker
This part of documentation is still not written.

### Running migrations
Migrations are handled using [migrate](https://github.com/golang-migrate/migrate/). For simplicity, I've created a bash script. After creating a database, you can run migrations using this command:
```bash
chmod +x ./migrate.sh # make migrate.sh executable
DB_URL=postgresql://postgres:password@localhost:5432/warmlight?sslmode=disable ./migrate.sh
```
